# Meeting notes

## Summary of correspondence history from End March to End April

2022_03_24: We figured out MPC sampling. I had a horrible modification of Blums coin flipping algorithm followed by a statistical test. Graham proposed Morra which was better in every way.

2022_04_01: Proposal of covert security or publicly variable security. Sent Graham [this](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/1108.pdf) paper. Graham felt the techniques were a little involved.

2022_04_11: Discovered Non Malleable Secret Sharing: The hope was that if bad server tampered with their secret shares, it would become random with high probability.

```
Few resources describing them: 

1. Sruti Shekhar now at UC Berkeley and previously at Technion defended her phd thesis: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UZOJL-jPr0g
It’s a good summary of the general idea. 

2. Vipul Kumar at CMU extends it to t out of n secret sharing under different function families: https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/316. 

3. In general I found most of the resources from : https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/1069.pdf

Forgot to link this talk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UARTYiDQwYc
``` 

Although promising, I put it on the back burner as I found verifiable secret sharing from the BIU talks. Especially interesting was the homomorphic nature of the diffie helman signature. This led to me modifying the sketching and final protocol so that the adversary would be caught out. Note: this is verifiable and secure, so better than covert.

**TODO**: Compile all papers that have been exachanged over email and capture context.

## Outstandting Tasks

These should be on the Github issue tracker.

[] The protocols do not have formal proofs yet. A simulator might be needed for the diffie hellman stuff.
[] Secure Comparison protocol in semi honest model violates differential privacy, therefore input privacy. But not in the semi honest/covert model. Only the active model. How to fix that remains open.
[] It remains a TODO on how we should implement the Secure comparison protocol in the first place.
[] Actually implementing any of this in code remains todo. RustLang and GoLang are the languages of choice.

## Things to chat about

[] Happy with why existing protocols do not work? The coins have to be public. And if the coins are public, the transformation has to be lossy. Does this come across properly?
[] If we ignore the secure comparison part of the protocol -- are you convinced the rest of it works?
[] Do we need more formal simulator based proofs? Bellare's paper will be very useful in this regard to show what is equivalent to what. Also Canetti's paper.
[] Do we need to upgrade to bi-variate polynomials to get info-theoretic security over computational security.
[] What do you think we need to do on top of what we are doing to make it a strong paper, people will care about. Why has no one else really looked at DP under active security. You mentioned including some other problems instead of $M$-bin histogram counting.
[]